---
title: "HiPCastor - Research"
layout: textlay
excerpt: "HiPCastor -- Research"
sitemap: false
permalink: /research/
---

# Research

Our overarching goal is to research and develop new techniques applied to a diverse spectrum of computer systems (including edge, cloud, and high-performance computing) and across layers of abstraction (including computer architecture, operating systems, virtualization, middleware, and applications). 

Here are some themes and techniques that we currently work on:

**Function-as-a-Service, serverless workflows.** Modern Function-as-a-Service (FaaS) cloud platforms offer great potential for supporting event-driven scientific workflows. Nonetheless, there remain barriers to adoption by the scientific community in domains such as environmental sciences, where R is the focal language used for the development of applications and where users are typically not well-versed with FaaS APIs. We have designed and implemented [FaaSr](https://faasr.io), a novel open-source middleware that supports event-driven scientific workflows in R. A key novelty in FaaSr is the ability to deploy workflows across FaaS providers without the need for any managed servers for coordination.


**Software-defined virtual networks for edge-to-cloud computing.** The advent of virtualization and cloud computing has fundamentally changed how distributed applications and services are deployed and managed. With the proliferation of IoT and mobile devices, virtualized systems akin to those offered by cloud providers are increasingly needed geographically near the network’s edge to perform processing tasks in proximity to the data sources and sinks. While, within cloud data centers, nodes can communicate without the presence of Network Address Translators (NATs), edge computing applications require devices to communicate across different private networks and must deal with NAT traversal to enable edge-to-edge communication. We have designed and implemented [EdgeVPN](https://edgevpn.io), a novel technique that enables virtual private Ethernet networks that span edge and cloud resources – including those constrained by NAT and firewall middleboxes. EdgeVPN builds upon a scalable structured peer-to-peer overlay, and is novel in how it integrates overlay tunnels with Software Defined Networking (SDN) software switches to create a virtual network with dynamic membership – supporting unmodified Ethernet/IP stacks to facilitate the deployment of edge applications. 

**AI4Science, scientific surrogate model.** The application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in scientific computing has revolutionized workflows by introducing efficient surrogate models that approximate computationally expensive simulations. These models significantly reduce computation time while maintaining high accuracy, enabling faster exploration of scientific phenomena. Our work includes the development of SmartPGSim, a neural network-based surrogate model that accelerates AC-OPF power grid simulations, which has been recognized in DOE Science News for its innovation in bridging AI with energy systems. Smart-FluidNet is another achievement, offering adaptive neural network-based approximations to speed up Eulerian fluid simulations, providing a scalable and efficient approach for complex fluid dynamics problems. Furthermore, Auto-HPCnet delivers an automated framework for constructing surrogate models tailored to HPC applications, empowering domain scientists to seamlessly integrate AI into their computational workflows. These projects collectively demonstrate the transformative potential of AI surrogates in scientific applications, paving the way for a new era of efficiency and scalability in simulation-driven research.

**System optimization for Machine Learning.** The increasing complexity of machine learning (ML) models and the growing scale of datasets present significant challenges for training and inference on high-performance computing (HPC) systems. Efficient system optimization is essential to address issues such as memory bottlenecks, workload imbalance, and inter-node communication overhead. These challenges become even more pronounced in emerging domains like AI foundation models. Our work explores solutions to these problems by co-designing algorithms and systems. For example, Betty demonstrates how batch-level graph partitioning can improve workload distribution and scalability in GNN training. By addressing these system-level challenges, our research aims to enable more efficient and robust ML workflows for scientific and industrial applications.

